# Identity Politics: Hatred, Power, and Love

In Toni Morrison's "Strangers", she recounts an encounter with a stranger:

> I am in this river place - newly mine - walking in the yard when I see a woman sitting on the seawall at the edge of a neighbor's garden. A homemade fishing pole arcs into the water some twenty feet from her hand. A feeling of welcome washes over me. I walk toward her, right up to the fence that separates my place from the neighbor's, and notice with pleasure the clothes she wears: men's shoes, a man's hat, a well-worn colorless sweater over a long black dress.

Immediately, an identity assumed in place of the stranger, through her appearance, attire, and action. An toward this identity, Morrison's emotion, which is the very essence of our human connection, is evoked.

In our everyday life, we encounter the other, the friend, the outsider, the relative, the foreigner, and the native. In all this relationship, identity is there. The beginning sentence in this paragraph is, in fact, a list of identities. In our world, identity has become political. It is inside the field of power. Identity is understood with privilege, prestige, wealth, prejudice. Identity is the way we understand each other. Therefore, identity is the screen between us. Identity is the reason for love, and the cause of hatred. It is the measure of privilege, the origin of prejudice.

We will be amiss to assume that identity politics is a recent phenomenon. The wars fought on religious ideals, the reforms based on class and cultural groups, the establishment of kingdoms and tribes are all based on explicit identities proclaimed by one or another group. One of our most ancient divisions between man and woman is part of identity politics. In this sense, we have not progressed. We have changed the names, altered the ways to organize and categorize people, but our essential division between identities have not changed. So before we plunge into the politics based on a name, either the name of a God or the name of a people, we must ask a fundamental question: can identity solve our immense human crisis, such as war, hunger, and inequality? Can the organization of people based on a name give birth to harmonious existence of human beings? Is love related to an identity? How is hatred born? What is the nature of power, which have corrupted human beings over and over for thousands of years? And, is identity necessary at all?
